In this video we'll take a look at some of the features that are supported by our virtual switches and
we're going to walk through some features that are supported by the vees fair standards which And we'll
also walk through some features that are not supported by the Vee's for standards which are only supported
by the Vee's for distributed switch.
And I'll point those out as we come to them.
And this first line is a good example.
We have two different discovery protocols Cisco discovery protocol or CVP and Linkletter discovery protocol
or L-L DP and these are useful features that have been around for a long time on network hardware and
they can be used to discover information about other connected network devices.
So for example assume that this ESX host pictured here has a VSE standard switch and it's connected
to a physical Cisco switch.
We can configure Cisco discovery protocol or see DP on the standard virtual switch to allow it to discover
some of the characteristics of the physical switch.
Here's an example of some of the information that we'll be able to view within the Vee's for web client
when CTP is enabled.
Here we can see that this VM neck or physical adapter is connected to a Cisco physical switch that has
the IP address of ten not one not one not one we can see what port that VM Nic is connected to.
And we can even see the hardware platform and software version of the Cisco switch.
Now that's what CGP does an LDP is basically the same thing.
It's called link where discovery protocol now LDP is only supported on the VSE for distributed switch.
And this is a vendor agnostic kind of standard discovery protocol that supports a number of different
vendors.
So here we see we have a Vee's for a distributed switch running on an ESX host with two VM next are
physical adapters and those VM next are connected to a physical switch that supports Al.
And so now from within the Vee's for web client we can view details about that physical switch such
as the IP address the port number that are these very distributed switches plugged into the hardware
platform and a variety of other information is presented as well.
Now one final note.
You want to check with your security policy prior to enabling CD PNL DP because this is going to be
exposing some of the details of the physical network and it can also expose details about your virtual
network as well.
And so there is a possibility that this network information could be compromised and used to attack
your network.
So just make sure before you enable these features that its allowed based on your company's network
Security Policy
Network IO control can be used to enforce Chers limits and reservations on different types of network
traffic and network IO control is only supported on the VSE fair distributed switch.
So network control allows us to ensure that certain types of traffic will always be granted sufficient
bandwidth.
So for example in this diagram VM traffic is granted twice as many shares as I scuzzy traffic or Wii
motion traffic.
Now what does this mean on a normal day to day basis Lets say that we have plenty of physical bandwidth
to go around well if thats the case the share structure means nothing.
Shares are only enforced when there is a scarcity of resources.
So if there is contention for bandwidth that means that my virtual machine traffic will effectively
get twice as much bandwidth as Wii motion and I scuzzy.
We can also configure things like limits or reservations with network I will control as well and we
can also create network resource pools based on port groups to allow us to define priorities for different
virtual machine port groups.
Now the way I like to think of network IO control is sort of like a safety net.
I'm not a big fan of configuring limits or reservations but I do like configuring shares.
And the goal is that hopefully those shares will never take effect.
Hopefully we'll always have plenty of available bandwidth and we won't need to utilize that share structure.
But should a situation arise where we have a scarcity of bandwidth network i o control will ensure that
the appropriate traffic is prioritized
traffic filtering and tagging is supported by the VSD fair distributed switch.
So for example we could create a filtering policy for incoming traffic from a certain IP address range
or maybe on a certain TCAP port.
And as that traffic flows into the vees fair distributed switch and it matches that criteria that we've
identified we can take different actions on that traffic like for example simply dropping it or we could
create a marking policy to assign class of service or DCP tags to packets coming from a specified IP
address.
So here comes a packet from Vergine machine one and maybe matches a traffic marking policy that we've
created in the Vee's for distributed switch.
Based on that it will be a sign quality of service headers and as that packet traverses the physical
network the physical network will respect the quality of service values and ensure that that traffic
is handled appropriately.
And so filtering and tagging basically gives us two functions the filtering function allows us to basically
establish an access list where certain traffic can be either permitted or denied the tagging capability
allows us to create quality of service policies and append.
Q All else matters to traffic as it leaves the virtual switch bound for the physical network.
Network health check is a feature that's only available on the VSE fair distributed switch.
The purpose of network health check is to ensure that the virtual switch and the physical switch have
been configured in a compatible manner.
So in this example we can see that the VSE for distributed switch has an empty view of 9000.
The physical switch hasn't MTU of 15:24.
So these empty values are mismatched and that means that as frames leave the virtual switch and hit
the physical switch.
They may need to be fragmented and reassembled by that physical switch.
And this can create some serious problems because the CPP usage of that physical switch can be extremely
high if it's doing fragmentation and reassembly.
We can also see that on the VSE for distributed switch we've configured IP hash Nic teaming which requires
a port channel configuration and the physical switch.
However the physical switches and configure that way and we can also see a Vesely and mismatch as well.
The purpose of network health check is to expose these inconsistencies so that we can easily identify
and fix them.
Now one side note about this from a security perspective it's a best practice to leave network health
check disabled and only enable it when you're trying to validate that something's been configured correctly.
So the best practice is to leave this disabled unless we're actually using it
net flow reports traffic information to a centralized collector right.
Net flows kind of like the kid that tells on all his friends and the net flow collector is like the
mom.
So let's walk through this.
And number one this is only available via a distributed switch.
So here we see a couple of virtual machines called 10.0 $1.1 11 and 10 not one not one not 12.
Those are the IP addresses of the victims.
And then up towards the top of the screen in purple we see a net flow collector on the far right.
We see some external machine with the IP address of 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 12.
So let's say that my VM generates some traffic that's bound for that external physical machine.
And here it goes it flows out through the virtual switch over the physical switch and towards that physical
host well what's going to happen at that point is the vees for distributed switch is going to generate
something called the traffic flow.
That's basically going to identify the source and destination the TCAP poor of that traffic and some
other fairly limited information about that traffic and all of our traffic is going to result in these
flows that are constantly being sent to the net flow collector and the net flow collector will include
some reporting capabilities so that we can see which virtual machines are generating the most traffic.
What ports is the most traffic going over.
Is there a certain type of traffic that spikes at a certain time of day.
Well now we've got all of these traffic records that are stored in a centralized collector and we can
report on any of this criteria that we want to
port.
Mirroring is another feature that's only available in the vees fair distributed switch.
It can be used to send a copy of all of the traffic on one port to another port.
So for example here we see on the left two virtual machines tend not one not one but 11 and 10 that
one not one time 12 we can set up a port mirroring session so that any traffic that comes in bound for
the port that we want to monitor will be automatically mirrored to some other poor maybe on the second
V.M. towards the bottom.
We want to run a sniffer and analyze all of the traffic that's flowing to the top virtual machine where
we could set up what's called a distributed port mirroring session to accomplish that.
And that's exactly what we see here in our animation and distributed port mirroring session means any
traffic for one specific virtual port that we identify will be automatically mirrored to another port.
Now we could also set up other types of Port mirroring sessions for example.
Let's talk about some of the other types of marrying sessions and just understand that these might be
represented on the VCP exam.
A remote mirroring source will watch one of our distributed virtual ports and instead of mirroring to
another virtual port it will mirror outward of our uplinks.
That's a remote mirroring source.
A remote mirroring destination port mirroring session will monitor an entire V LAN and sent all of that
traffic to a distributed virtual port.
Host level rollbacks occur when a change is made that breaks in ESX I hostes connection with the center.
So every network change that disconnects a host also triggers a rollback and the change that caused
the issue was undone and the configuration reverts back to the way it was.
So for example let's assume that an administrator changes the IP address of the management VM kernel
port.
And so therefore the ESX host loses connectivity to the center.
At this point the host is now disconnected but host level rollback will kick in and the change will
be automatically reverted.
We also have a feature called distributed switch rollback distributed switch rollbacks occur when it
changes made to the distributed switch that breaks connectivity changes that can trigger this rollback
include changing the empty view on a distributed switch.
Choosing an incompatible Nic teaming method or choosing an incorrect VPN.
So for example let's assume that we change the V lab on the VSE for a distributed switch to 20.
But the physical switch is configured for VLAN 10.
This results in my ESX I hostes being disconnected from the V Center network for management.
Now if this happens you have a couple of options.
You can manually fix the problem in the physical switch restoring connectivity.
Or you can restore the configuration of the Vee's for a distributed switch from backup as well.
So in reveal we learned about discovery protocols in this lesson including CTP and L-O.
And we learned that CVP is Cisco's specific and it's actually supported by the vees for standard switch
or the VSE for a distributed switch LDP is only available on the vees fair distributed switch and this
is also the case for net flow net flows for a distributed switch feature that uses a centralized collector
to aggregate traffic details and produce reports.
We learned about traffic filtering and marking and how it can be used to create access lists or also
to tag certain types of traffic with quality of service values.
We learned about network IO control and how it can be used to ensure that our most important traffic
always gets sufficient bandwidth on the physical network.
We talked about a few different port mirroring session types and how they can be used to send a copy
of traffic on a virtual port to some other virtual port so that traffic can be monitored.
And then finally we learned about the rollback feature how it can automatically revert damaging network
changes and restore the center connectivity.